You will find that as a marketer,
starting to explore your data as a channel level is super helpful.
By starting at this high level,
you can get an initial understanding about which
channels seem to work well for you and you can then start to
drill down by channel in order to get a good sense
of specific campaigns or content that worked for you.
Let's take a look at what we can learn by doing just that.
The channels report gives me a high level view of
the channels that send traffic to the Google Merchandise Store,
sorted by default channel group.
It looks like most of the traffic to the store for
this time period came from Social channels,
closely followed by Organic Search.
Let's take a look at these one by one,
starting with the Social channel.
Google Analytics classifies traffic from about 400 social networks in the Social channel.
The traffic could be from links and Facebook posts,
tweets or other less well-known social channels.
You can see the main social networks sending traffic to
the merchandise store by clicking into the Social channel.
In this case, YouTube is clearly the main traffic driver.
Note that YouTube is counted as a Social channel.
But I'm curious, what would it be on the YouTube site that sends traffic over?
In order to find out,
I can first take a look at the Source/Medium report.
This report tells me that the medium is a referral from YouTube.
So, let's check in the Referral report to get more details.
Here's YouTube.
Let's click on it to get the exact referring page.
It looks like traffic is coming to the merchandise store from the About pages.
So let's go to that page.
Indeed, there's a link to the merchandise store on the YouTube About page.
Now that I know where the YouTube traffic is really coming from,
I might argue that this is not really social traffic.
The nature of this link is a bit different from someone
posting something cool about my products on a social platform.
So, that's why it's always good to drill down and
see what's really going on using detailed reports.